Hey, everyone.
In this video we're going to be
talking about common applications and
fun facts regarding VoIP.
>> Right, so some, the simplest one
is the computer to computer VoIP.
And you obviously know
there's ATA's in and IP's.
Not much to talk about, just phones.
And for Computer-to-Computer VoIPs
there's tons of programs out there.
>> Right.
>> And some big ones would be like Skype,
Teamspeak, Ventrillo, Mumble, etc.
>> And one big Computer-to-Computer VoIP
that we forgot to mention is
the Dragonboard itself can do
Computer-to-Computer VoIP.
>> Of course it's an IP phone but
it can talk to other phones.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Other Dragonboards.
Computers.
>> So, what Randy means by that is
on your DragonBoard you can have
two different operating systems.
You can have the Android operating
system or the Ubuntu operating system.
When you have the Android operating system
on the DragonBoard it basically functions
as an IP phone.
However when you load the Ubuntu
operating system on the DragonBoard,
you can do computer computer VoIP
calls using the DragonBoard.
>> So, as long as you have
the right software it'll be fine.
>> Right, and so as Randy was
mentioning earlier about Skype.
Let's take a close look at
exactly how Skype works because
it's quite a interesting
piece of software there.
So, Skype works off of
a peer-to-peer network, it's a P2P.
So, if you haven't heard that
before basically what happens is,
let's say we're in a suburb somewhere and
there's a house that's making Skype calls.
Five houses down, there's another person
who has Skype loaded on their computer and
then ten miles down,
someone else has a Skype.
What happens is, if you're making
a call usually on the internet,
when you're making a call on the internet,
it goes through the internet and
goes down to lines and
goes to wherever you need to go, it
doesn't go to separate nodes in between.
But what happens when you're using
VOIP is when you're making a call,
it's gonna search for the closest computer
around you that's also using Skype.
And it's gonna go to that computer.
Transmit the data through their computer
to the next one, to the next one, and
to the next one.
So, let's say there's 100
houses between you and
in the person you're trying to call.
And all these 100 houses have some
type of Skype on their computer
and they're using it.
And what's gonna happen is your data that
you're trying to call or that you're
trying to have a video call with, that
data's gonna descend through 100 houses.
And I know that sounds very complicated or
time consuming.
But that actually makes
the process much faster.
Because you don't have to send
the data over a very long range
you can just do short range transmissions.
So, that's basically what
a peer to peer networking is.
Basically a peer to a peer and
it's gonna go down the line that way.
And basically what a peer to peer
network is, is that it's decentralized.
There's no 1 central hub that
transmits the data everywhere.
Every single person that's using it
serves as their own little node, and
they all submit the data.
It works in a community fashion.
So, it's decentralized, it's distributed
and one interesting thing about Skype,
it's a very interesting
algorithm that Skype developed,
is that when you're making a Skype call,
say you're making it internationally,
there might be a million people
using Skype in between, but
what Skype does is it locates which
computers have the best Internet.
So instead of trying to go through
computers that have kind of bad Internet,
it only locates the one that
has really good Internet.
And sense the information through them.
So, it makes for a much faster call.
And basically, Skype is a very
amazing piece of software that
everyone's using nowadays.
>> All right, so let's check out some
random facts or some cool facts we found.
So first, we have here is, the first VoIP
call was made in 1974 on the ARPANET.
>> Mm-hm.
>> Which stands for
Advanced Projects Research Agency Network.
>> Precursor to [CROSSTALK]
>> Precursor to today's internet.
>> Yeah.
And then next we have the gaming
VOIP used by criminals.
This is a very interesting fact,
I thought, cuz VOIP for
gaming is huge, right?
And criminals have tapped into
this market and are suspected
of conducting criminal activities under
the disguise of VoIP used for gaming.
So oftentimes, in todays gaming world
there's live chat happening between
player to play and so if one person is
calling another person, that phone call
could be tapped and most likely will be
tapped if those people are suspected.
However, in the gaming world
there's millions Millions and
billions of people playing that game.
So, what happens is, when you're talking
to someone on the chat it's much more
difficult to track who's chatting what to
some other player when there's a billion
players all on the same interface there.
>> And then finally,
anyone can start their own VoIP servers.
That means, you, me.
So long as you're an experienced coder,
as long as you know how VoIP works.
And in this course we plan to help you
learn how to use VoIP so you can set it
up on your own using the dragon board.
Right?
So-
>> Stay tuned for that.
>> Yeah,
what are some cool things we can do?
>> Oh, let's see,
one cool thing that I thought
>> Let's say you're a new parent, and
you have a child.
And you wanna monitor the child,
make sure it's being safe when
you're at work or something.
>> Right.
>> You can have like a little baby
monitor, or maybe a video cam that's
always keeping an eye on the child.
>> Huh.
>> And you can use that, and
you can see a live feed on your cell
>> Phone and that can be done off of VOIP.
>> Yeah that'd be pretty cool.
Be able to program it.
You can say maybe some
kind of voice activate through
your phone or something like that.
>> Yeah.
>> Maybe you have a sensor in your house.
Someone breaks in and
that instantly sends you a phone call.
Right.
>> Pretty neat.
That'll be pretty helpful.
>> So, the possibilities with what you
can do with VOIP are quite endless and
we'll try to open up to some of these
ideas later on in this course and
hope you stay tuned.